# Founder Profile

Hello there :) Welcome to Aucry. I'm Mark Newby. I wanted to give an open and public account of what led me to Aucry, along with background on who I am. This is a long article, but I hope it helps to build confidence in the project and what I'm hoping to achieve.

### Early Years

I have fond memories of the early days of the internet. Born in '86, I matured as the internet matured - an era before social networks when Microsoft FrontPage. Six Degrees came and went - MySpace came and (largely) went. Facebook and Twitter launched. I watched with awe as these massive platforms brought people around the globe together.

Locally, I built and maintained a website for a local musicians collective. I honed my skills - teaching myself PHP. College exposed me to a variety of programming languages and I was told I had a 'natural born skill for understanding computers'. University was a worse experience; classes were slow, and I felt I was always ahead of the course in my self-taught knowledge, completing hour long workshops in minutes.

I dropped out in third year. Over the summer beforehand, I started working as an intern at a creative agency in Manchester. I tried to continue during my third year, but the juxtaposition of the corporate world mixed with the party lifestyle of a student was untenable. I wanted to earn, and my skill so far had given me a way to earn far more than the average student weekend job.

### Mum's Couch I

I lasted 6 months at the agency after dropping out. Making a pass at your boss is not a winning strategy - especially when said pass goes somewhere, then breaks down. I did a little freelance work and went back to my mothers couch. Lesson learned.\
\
Shout out to Mum's couch - while we're lucky enough to know / have our mothers, Mum's couch is our respawn point - always there for us if things go totally wrong.

It was at this time, I started talking to someone online. They got a job back in Manchester, and I started applying to work back in the city. I joined Bauer Radio as Group Web Developer; an insanely fast paced job where I was in part responsible for 23 local radio station websites across the country.&#x20;

### An Introduction to eCommerce

Throughout this job, a colleague introduced me to a HDMI cable retailer who wanted help integrating Amazon & eBay into their online store. I worked freelance on the integration and eventually joined the company for a while, perfecting the integration. \
\
"Other retailers could use this - you should totally sell it", the founder of the cable retailer said one afternoon. This would be one of the most important conversations of my life so far.

I spent the next 3 months refining and documenting the Amazon and eBay connectors and, despite having never sold anything other than my services before, I put them on sale on the Magento eCommerce Platform marketplace. A week passed. Two weeks passed. I was about to cut the price by 90% when a retailer in Germany purchased my Amazon connector. A week passed; another sale. 3 days passed - another sale; 3 sales came the very next day.

By the end of the year, over 400 retailers around the world had bought my solution. I'd left the cable retailer and was now running my own company - Camiloo (a name generated by a random name generator I thought sounded startup-ish!).

Inspired by Steve Jobs telling us to stay hungry, I wanted more. I took on my fiancé as CTO, and together we successfully sought seed investment. We grew a team of 13, and converted our connector plugins into a platform for marketplace integration - ChannelUnity. Over the next few years more than 4000 retailers around the world would join our service. I connected with most of the companies founders or developers as they came onboard, and learnt an invaluable amount about eCommerce around the world.

### Mum's Couch II

We were gradually making a name for ourselves, starting to gain traction. But the stress and strain of starting a business proved too much for my relationship with my fiancé and CTO. We just grew apart, and I knew that if I wanted the platform we'd worked so hard to build and grow to survive, I had to leave. I won't go into details, but I sold my share in the company to the Chairman we had appointment and exited. I'm really happy that many years later, the company is going from strength to strength.

I moved back to my mothers house and went backpacking around Europe to recharge. It felt alien to be out of the business game. I wanted a project - I needed a passion.

On my travels, I started talking to someone who would become my rock, and frankly became a candle in the dark when everything I knew had gone. I moved to Cardiff to be with them, and we became an item.

Just days into living together, an old freelance client made contact with me - having heard of my departure from my company - and offered me a lot of odd jobs. "Odd jobs." I thought. "Maybe other retailers have odd jobs". Sellerstar was born - completing odd job tasks for retailers timed and billed against a clock to the second.&#x20;

### Two hands, too many tasks

Throughout ChannelUnity's growth, I had become used to asking for help - a problem shared really is a problem halved. I needed more clients to fill my day with work, and my partner needed an exit from their current role in telesales. We formed a team - my partner acting as sales and outreach and me working on client sites. I helped my partner to learn the outreach processes I had learnt building ChannelUnity. Our campaign was a great success.

We leveraged this success to move to London and rebranded to Webwarecare, with a goal to try and recruit engineers to work alongside me and attract investment. But the human element took its toll - I overstretched. I found myself working 18 hour days on client work day every day just to keep up with demand. I wasn't living, and didn't have enough time to focus on recruitment.

I decided I needed to try and find a contract and work for one employer. I applied for a leading beauty brand, and was successful. We closed our agency and my now fiancé started a career in HR.&#x20;

### Enterprise Mode

Since 2018, I've been working for Charlotte Tilbury Beauty. I've been incredibly fortunate to be part of a scale-up companies journey, and have been incredibly inspired by everything I've seen. I can't say much in detail, of course, however when I jointed, our team in engineering was 4 - there are now over 40 engineers employed in an incredibly supportive environment. I've been able to apply my knowledge and experience and have helped to drive growth through innovation. My role means so much to me, and I can see myself being there for many years to come.

But, enterprise mode comes with an interesting and important challenge to my previous 'ownership' paradigm. As an enterprise engineer, you are part of a team of engineers working on a project. It is not 'your project' and while you must have a sense of responsibility in your work, you do not 'own' your project. Further - carrying a sense of ownership in an enterprise environment actually makes you a worse engineer. \
\
You have to get used to the idea that you're childminding somebody else's baby. This is why so many of us have pet projects / side projects - project children of their own. I feel this mindset switch when a project goes stratospheric / scales up to enterprise is also the reason founders such as Adam Neumann and Travis Kalanick failed; they couldn't let go of 'ownership' mindset when growth needed them to do so.

### Me & Crypto

Ever since my time building ChannelUnity, I've been fascinated by crypto. I saw - and missed - many opportunities to make incredible profits from trading virtual assets.&#x20;

I recall a time in 2015 when a retailer contacted me to report they had fallen victim of cryptolocker ransomware, and the bitcoin price at the time was £145. I didn't advise caving in to the hijackers demand and instead carried out a full replacement of the retailers server (followed by substantial security hardening), but the missed opportunity to buy bitcoin at such a low price compared to today still sticks in my mind.

During lockdown in 2020 as BNB Chain was born, I watched as people became millionaires overnight - backing the right token in an ever-growing world. I wrote arbitrage and launch sniper bots to attempt to win big and taught myself Solidity - the language behind most of the blockchain.&#x20;

But then my health let me down. At present, I am largely housebound with an as yet undiagnosed gastro illness similar to IBD. I have good days, but many bad moments on bad days. I won't go into detail, but I need to be near a bathroom at all times. It's horrid, and has changed my life, but I'm determined to make something which supports me and my partner for the rest of our lives. I want to own property outright. I want to be a millionaire. I want to make other people millionaires and be able to help those in need.

### Aucry

That determination led me to the Aucry concept. I was thinking back to old ideas which had been successful in the past wondering if they were ripe for reinvention and new innovation. Ideas tend to build on other ideas - as creators, we often think 'I really wish X did Y' and we make that happen.

I remembered 'MadBid'. MadBid was a pan-european All-Pay Bid website where customers paid a fee to 'bid' on an auction item. I thought - what if I took this concept and applied it to crypto - but let people bid on cryptocurrency lots with their bid added to the value of the auction.

And so here we are. If you've made it this far, thank you for taking the time to read my story. I hope Aucry becomes a fun place for us all to take part in great auctions.

Mark.



&#x20;
